# Predator and Prey
This repository houses one of my projects which is a Cellular Automata.  For those who don't know, a Cellular Automata is basically just a bunch of different cells doing a simulation.  In this project, each cell is either a predator (red), a prey (green), or empty (black).  Each turn, a cell moves randomly onto another cell.  For the prey cells, if they go a certain number of turns alive, they make another prey cell.  They can also only move onto tiles that are empty.  The predator cells can also move onto empty cells, but they can also move onto prey cells.  If they do move onto a prey cell, they will destroy that prey cell and create a predator cell on an empty cell that it is touching.  If a predator goes too long without "eating" a prey cell, it will die.  The simulation starts off with a grid of cells which are pseudo-randomly turned into either predator, prey, or empty cells.  What should happen in the simulation is that the predator cells will quickly "eat up" the surplus prey cells.  This leads to a prey cell deficit which makes most of the predator cells die off.  This means that the prey cells will regenerate in number which leads to another increase in predator cells.  This will result in an about equilibrium where neither prey nor predator cell will dominate.
# How It Was Made
This project was made using c++ and the graphics api OpenGL.  OpenGL is how the rendering gets done and it directly uses gpu resources.
# How To Run
To run this project, the user should download the newest version of visual studio community and open the .sln file in the main project directory.  A screen should appear with a green arrow at the top with the word start to the right of it.  Click that button and the project should run.
